“You cannot shake hands with a clenched fist.”  
“My grandfather once told me that there were two kinds of people; those who do the work and those who take the credit. He told me to try to be in the first group; there was much less competition.”  
“The power to question is the basis of all human progress.”  
“Forgiveness is a virtue of the brave.”  
“You must learn to be still in the midst of activity and vibrantly alive in repose.”  
“The meek may one day inherit the earth, but not the headlines.”  
“A nation's strength ultimately consists in what it can do on its own and not in what it can borrow from others.”  
“Whenever you take a step forward, you are bound to disturb something.”  
“The purpose of life is to believe, to hope and to strive.”  
“Peace we want because there is another war to fight against poverty, disease and ignorance.”  
“Even if I died in the service of the nation, I would be proud of it. Every drop of my blood will contribute to the growth of this nation and to make it strong and dynamic.”  
“People tend to forget their duties but remember their rights.”  
“My father was a statesman, I am a political woman. My father was a saint. I am not.”  
“Have a bias toward action – let’s see something happen now. You can break that big plan into small steps and take the first step right away.”  
“Happiness is a state of mind, you know. I don't think you are permanently happy. One is happy about certain things and not so happy about others.”  
“Nothing worthwhile is achieved without effort and hard work.”  
“It is our special pride that all the major religions of the world live and thrive in India.”  
“Communalism is an evil, which divides man and fragments society; it goes against our very genius and cultural heritage.”  
“It is for the people to judge who is truly patriotic and oppose all forces ... which oppose the unity of the country.”  
“Artists and writers, teachers and students … the nation looks to them to defend our ideals and to keep high our morale.”  
“Aggression must be met, and the people of India will meet it with fortitude and determination and with discipline and utmost unity.”  
“Without courage you cannot practise any other virtue. You must have intellectual courage … moral courage … physical courage.”  
